= Uniquify

Rails gem for generating a unique token in an Active Record model.

This is from Railscasts episode #135 showing how to make a gem.

http://railscasts.com/episodes/135-making-a-gem


== Install

  gem install ryanb-uniquify --source http://gems.github.com


== Usage

Let's say you have a Project model with a "token" string column that you 
want to be a unique identifier. Just add this to your model.

  class Project < ActiveRecord::Base
    uniquify :token
  end

This will generate a random and unique string before each book is 
created.

You can specify multiple columns ands options like this.

  uniquify :token, :salt, :length => 12, :chars => 0..9

You can also pass a block to generate your own characters.

  uniquify :token do
    rand(99999)
  end

If the generated value already exists, the block will be run again 
until the value is unique.


== License

Copyright (c) 2008 Ryan Bates
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
